# Training scripts

This subdirectory contains scripts used to create, train, and (sometimes) test spiking neural networks. The types of networks and some of their properties are listed below.

- Spiking neural networks (SNNs)
	- Code slightly modified from Diehl & Cook (2015). Synapses connect an input "layer" (specified by a population of Poisson spiking neurons) to an excitatory layer of neurons (with all-to-all connectivity), whose weights are learned via spike-timing-dependent plasticity. This excitatory layer is connected in a one-to-one fashion to a layer of inhibitory neurons, which are connected back in an all-to-all fashion (except that each excitatory neuron is not connected to the excitatory neuron from which it receives its only synaptic connection). This provides lateral inhibition, which creates competition between excitatory neurons to "represent" any given input pattern, based on the learned features of the network. See [https://github.com/peter-u-diehl/stdp-mnist](the original repository) for more information.
- Convolutional spiking neural networks (CSNNs)
	- A modification of the SNN architecture to incorporate arbitrarily-sized convolution windows (and corresponding neuron populations), stride, and learned patches / filters. Excitatory neurons now learn features corresponds to "chunks" of the input space: an 8x8 convolution window, for example, allows a neuron to respond to a particular pattern found in its receptive field in the input space. Weights are again learned via STDP. Weight sharing between neurons in the same convolution patch, as common in convolutional neural networks found in the practice of deep learning, can optionally be removed.
- Convolutional spiking neural networks with between-patch connectivity (CSNN-PCs)
	- A further modification of the SNN architecture which additionally specifies between-patch synaptic connectivity, whose weights are also modified via STDP (or Hebbian learning). Different connectivity patterns between patches can be specified, based on a spatially local neighborhood of any given neuron, as well as the patterning of the overarching connectivity of the convolution patches (e.g., all patches have between-patch connectivity, or only adjacent pairs).
